Style Guide and Diataxis Review: Wallet III (#996)
iotaledger/wallet.rs: documentation/docs/libraries/java/getting_started.md

- jar
- maven
- environment variable
- reference
---
# Getting Started with Java

## Prerequisites

To use the library, we recommend you update Rust to the latest stable version [`$ rustup update stable`](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustup.rs#keeping-rust-up-to-date). Nightly should be fine but some changes might not be compatible.

Ensure you have installed the [required dependencies for the library](https://github.com/iotaledger/wallet.rs/blob/dev/README.md) first. Then, you can also install the following programs:

- Java & JDK (Make sure $JAVA_HOME env variable is set).
- [Gradle](https://gradle.org/install/) v4 or higher or [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi).
- Cargo ndk (`cargo install cargo-ndk`).
- Cargo fmt (`rustup component add rustfmt`).

Download or clone the `wallet.rs` repository:

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
````

> $ git clone https://github.com/iotaledger/iota.rs.git

Reviewer: do we need the $ here?

Author: I think its a preference thing; removing for now.

```

## Security

In a production setup, do not store passwords in the host's environment variables or in the source code. See our [backup and security recommendations](https://chrysalis.docs.iota.org/guides/backup_security) for production setups.

## Installation

> To build using the Wallet.rs Java bindings, you need two parts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build using the Wallet.rs Java bindings, you will need:
```

1. JNI Native library linking `Rust` to `C`, and then `C` to java `native` methods (`.so` , `.dll` or `.dylib` depending on your system).
2. Java archive(Jar) containing `native` methods which call C code. (`.jar`).

### Step 1: Creating the Native Library

Build the wallet library (this generates the java source code and JNI library file):

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
````

cd wallet.rs/bindings/java
cargo build --release
```

> Generated binaries can then be found in `wallet.rs/bindings/java/target/release`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the generated binaries in `wallet.rs/bindings/java/target/release`.
```

:::note

Compiling for Android requires additional compilation instructions.

> These instructions can be found in the [Android development](android_development) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find these instructions in the [Android development](android_development) section.
```

:::

### Step 2: Creating the Java Archive

#### Generating the source files and classes

> After you complete step 1, Java source files will be generated under `wallet.rs/bindings/java/native/src/main/java/org/iota/wallet`.

Reviewer: We could add a link to step 1 here.  
```suggestion
After you complete step 1, you can find the Java generated source files under `wallet.rs/bindings/java/native/src/main/java/org/iota/wallet`.
```

If this step succeeds, you need to generate the jar file containing the newly generated Java source files.

#### Generating the jar

> Generating the jar can be done with your tool of preference. We provide examples for Gradle and Maven in this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate the jar file with your tool of preference. This guide provides examples for Gradle and Maven.
```

##### Gradle

> Make `gradlew` executable (`chmod +x gradlew`) if needed, then run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make `gradlew` executable (`chmod +x gradlew`) if needed, then run the following commands from the project root:
```

> ```
> cd wallet.rs/bindings/java
> ./gradlew jar
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
cd bindings/java
./gradlew jar
```
````

##### Maven

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can generate the jar file for the java binding by running the following commands from the project's root:
```

> ```
> cd wallet.rs/bindings/java
> mvn install
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```bash
cd bindings/java
mvn install
```
````

> After running one of these commands, the jar can then be found at `wallet.rs/bindings/java/native/build/libs/native.jar`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After running one of these commands, you can find the jar file at `wallet.rs/bindings/java/native/build/libs/native.jar`
```

## Usage

You can find more information on using the `wallet.rs` library's java binding in the [examples section](examples.md).

### Gradle

> 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

You can run the examples using Gradle by running the following command:

```bash
````

./gradlew examples:java-app:test --info
```

### Maven

> 
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

You can run the examples using Maven by running the following command:

```bash
````

mvn exec:exec
```

## API Reference

> You can find the API Reference [here](api_reference).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find references for this binding's API in the [Java API Reference](api_reference) section.
```

## Limitations

> Due to the fact that we are linking through C from Rust, there are a few limiting factors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the fact that the Java binding links through C to Rust, there are a few limiting factors.
```

I think it's to, but please correct me if I'm wrong.  Java binding  -> C  -> Rust library

> - Classic builder patterns return a `clone` after each builder call since we can only pass back to C by reference in `Rust`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Classic builder patterns return a `clone` after each builder call since we can only pass back to C by reference in `Rust` as shown in the example below.
```
